hey how's it going Dave TD here so I've
always considered myself an enthusiast
or at the very least a fan of external
GPS and this video was originally going
to be kind of like a showcase of some
external GPU enclosures that works with
high sierra the new upcoming Mac OS but
as I tested things and I got into the
thick of it the video kind of changed
course okay hi Sierra this is the
upcoming version of Mac OS it's in beta
right now but external GPU support is
really solid the razor core is one of
the more popular Thunderbolt 3
enclosures this is running the TI 82
controller this does not work in Mac OS
hi Sierra so there were workarounds for
this kind of stuff in Sierra but that
doesn't work in High Sierra the
enclosure that I used to test most of
this video was this thing the mantas
Venus now I'm actually running new
firmware from Intel to get 2200
megabytes per second of PCIe bandwidth
the older firmware had potential
limitations because of the ports ok
inside the Venis there's a big enough
power supply in here to power and charge
even the 15-inch MacBook Pro it can feed
87 watts I think to whatever it's
connected to
and there's actually a connection in
here for a SATA Drive so off of a single
fundable 3 cable you get power to your
macbook you get external GPU
capabilities and you get a drive in here
for backup or storage or whatever you
want to do so I'm going to jump right
into the thick of it external GPU
supports in High Sierra is basically
plug and play it's running very early
drivers on a beta OS but everything
works really nice the 10 series NVIDIA
GPU is run decent the AMD GPUs like the
rx 480 and Rx 580 are really reliable
but like any external Thunderbolt 3 GPU
you automatically lose about 10 to 15
percent of the performance just by
nature of the connection the other thing
is I highly recommend running this thing
with an external display you can connect
it using like a ghost connector to run
it on to the internal display but I
really don't recommend it it's a 15 to
20 percent hit so here are some native
mat games running on a Tandy P external
monitor and if you look at these numbers
it doesn't look bad right it's way
better than anything you'd get from a
stock MacBook GPU and as long as you're
putting a powerful graphics card into
the enclosure you can get some strong
frame weights for games but then when
you compare this Mac setup
to a window setup the difference is
substantial you need to get a
significantly more powerful GPU for the
Mac just to keep up and that's my whole
issue even with great support good
drivers and expensive hardware
performance isn't great in Mac OS the
only way to get good external GPU
performance here it's around boot camp
windows and I noticed the same thing in
Adobe Premiere the external GPU helps a
lot I mean it's so much better than the
Radeon Pro but the same external GPU
gets better performance in Windows and
it's been like half a years since I've
been chucked external GPS on Macs
they've become much easier to setup
there's no more scripts and the whole
thing is just a lot more reliable but
performance is exactly the same and I'm
convinced at this point that this is as
good as performance is going to get for
these cards which quite frankly sucks so
one of the biggest issues with external
GPUs is pricing the enclosures
themselves aren't cheap and then the
GPUs you need to put in them are pricey
as well especially with all the crypto
mining happening so you're looking at
four or five hundred dollars for the
enclosure and then at least three maybe
four hundred dollars for the GPU inside
there I mean you could go lower but then
the whole thing isn't really worth your
time then you need an external monitor
and those are a couple hundred maybe a
little bit more and if you want to go
something higher-end like you're pushing
six seven hundred dollars at the end
this whole set up just for the external
GPU stuff can easily break eleven or
twelve hundred dollars and at that price
you can build a game PC or you can get a
solid gaming laptop for the money see if
you're investing in an external GPU set
up or you're forced to run boot camp
windows for performance I feel like you
should spend that money on a dedicated
Windows setup instead external GPUs have
always been very expensive already for
Windows laptops but then on Macs that
price to performance ratio is just even
worse and it's not apples fault none of
this is Apple's hardware it's just that
many games and applications are
optimized for Windows and just perform
better there now maybe the next
generation of GPS will make this better
like maybe volta or Vega will just make
this somehow more cost-effective or
maybe enclosures will come down a lot in
price but there's something inherently
wrong with this whole Thunderbolt 3
connection maybe we need thunder about 4
maybe we need more bandwidth available
so that you're not losing so much
performance when you're piping it
through I'm not sure what it is the
right now for Mac's book users unless
you absolutely need this thing in your
workflow like you need something for
work to make this happen this mm-hmm
it's just not cost-effective
[Music]